Welcome to Plar Rose podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Welcome back to the Plleos podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life and we'll continue in this particular episode on a very important subject matter which is healing in the newness of life and I hope you have been blessed thus far. We're about to get to the practical side of the teaching and so everything we've said earlier is so important to the things we're about to establish now. Now you remember what brought us to this juncture in our study. We understood that to fulfill God's purpose for our life, it's required that we grow. You know, is the degree of our growth that determines the degree of our fulfillment of God's purpose. Now, we're seen that what we are to grow in is the reality of the new man or the reality of the new creation or the reality of the newness of life. With that understanding in mind that our growth is in this newness of life, we began our study on the newness of life as well as the realities there in. Essentially, we came to the conclusion that the newness of life is not just something internal, is also external. So there's the life God wants us to have as a world as well as the life he puts in us. So it's like talking about the life in water as well as the life of a particular kind of fish. When you are aware of those two things, then you understand that when Paul speaks of us walking in the newness of life in Romans 6 and4, there are external conditions as well as internal ones pertaining to that life. And it's with this in mind we had to define. All right, this life we're talking about is something God wanted from the start and would be fully effected at the end. That's fine. But what is available to us right now? what is available to us in the newness of life today. We drilled the boundaries and we said that everything in that life that would be fully affected in the age to come is available except mortality of our body and incorruption of matter. So next question we ask is what then is available to our body as well as to us relative to matter. So we started with the first part was available to our body which we said is healing and we made the case for that by seeing how immortality will be affected in our body at the end. And we saw from Romans 8:11, Philippians 3:20, um 2 Corinthians 54 and 5. Um there are so many texts we could even look at in that regard. I also made a reference to Ephesians 3:20 as an argument. In that regard, we can see that it's by the spirit or the power at work in us that we are going to have the effecting of immortality in our body as well as incorruption in matter. Okay. So if you have that in mind that oh okay so this is going to be done by the spirit but it is not yet now the lord Jesus will do so at his coming. What is available in the spirit for my bodies today? Healing. All right. How do we know? We saw it in the walk of the lord Jesus as well as in the ministry of the church. You know in the book of acts that healing was available. Healing was available in the spirit for the bodies of people. Yes. Healing was available in the spirit for the bodies of people. Healing was available in the newness of life. Was available in the power of God for the bodies of people. So I want us to recognize that this is a biblical submission. This is not a submission that pertains to a particular movement, group of people, set just people who have lost their heads or their minds. If the Bible is the revelation of God, which it is, and for good reason, then we ought to accept that truth that by what Christ has done, by what redemption has accomplished, healing is available. And it's on the premise of redemption, it was available before Christ came. Yeah. It was also is on the very premise of that redemption Christ would do that healing was also available prior to his coming. Very important. It's like talking about forgiveness of sins available for Christ came. We're told that God forbought because of what he was going to do in Christ. And it's the same way now that sin and death entered the world. The right for healing was available because of the work that the Lord was going to do and has done in his death and resurrection. All right. So putting that in mind um you know we we should have that very serious appreciation that healing is is is available to us right now. Now we have had to make some clarification that redemption has not affected healing. It has only made it available and it is available in the newness of life. Very important. So we shouldn't be reading text like 1 Peter chapter 2:24, Mark chapter 8:16,17 in a way that can create a cognitive dissonance, mental dissonance that we have something and yet we're wondering oh it will be so well. It's like someone telling us you have immortality like right now you're like are you even kidding me like we are aging and you are saying such a thing you know so it's going to it's not just I mean it's just wrong. Let's just just let's just put it that way. It's just wrong. It's not just correct. So healing is available in redemption in the newness of life. It is to be affected by us in our walk is much the same way that a new nature and character is available to us you know is available to us in um by redemption you know is available to us in the newness of life but it's for us to walk in it. This is standard Bible teaching Pauline teaching and submission as well. Okay. Now having said that we also took a look at the place of natural healing where we saw that man has been made the manager of the cosmos and therefore everything in the cosmos is meant to be managed by us for good. We particularly paid attention to Psalm 104 and verse4 downwards to 16. So please you can and you ought to embrace all that is available in natural. It belongs to us. You know there's a text we could even add in this regard when we say the cosmos is ours. But um that text can be stretched many ways. But let me still just point it out. First Corinthians chapter 3, Paul was telling them that the knowledge of light of God's word through several preachers was theirs. And he even told them that the cosmos is theirs. You know, even presently in this life when they die, they are still abiding with Christ. And even the things to come are theirs as well. 1 Corinthians chapter 3 and verse 21. Therefore let no man boast in men for all things are yours whether Paul or Apollos or SAS or the world the cosmos or life or death or things present or things to come. So of course death there is talking about life after death if you want to say. So or things present what we have now in this life or things to come the age to come all are yours and you are Christ and Christ is God's. So that's the mindset is presenting to us about the cosmos. The cosmos is has for managing. All right. So this is a very important understanding that we ought to have. We can embrace natural healing fully as we embrace supernatural healing. In fact, we already do on a you know on a regular basis. The challenge maybe arises when a sickness comes up and people are contesting that it shouldn't be in contest. You should respond to it you know as is necessary with the natural and the supernatural. All right. So and that's a separate issue we look at. Some will respond to it like immediately supernaturally and immediately also act in the natural and that's okay. you know different strokes for different folks according to their faith but there must never be foolishness okay and you must know how to respond as necessary to um conditions with natural healing well I haven't said that we said healing is available supernatural healing must not be despised we must not have an aversion for it is necessary for us as a matter of a defense an active response when there is a situation and it's a joint response with natural healing depending so but I'm I'm saying that because you shouldn't throw away natural all together you know that is healing resting sometimes you can believe God and you are still supposed to rest because you overworked yourself and you'll be healed and sometimes you may not need um to then use medication which I mean is a godly thing that is available to you as well sometimes you might still have to use medication and still believe God as well and there will be nothing wrong with that so we need to have the wisdom of God's word in approaching responding to sickness and disease with both supernatural healing and natural healing and sometimes which is the third thing supernatural healing might be the only option on the table situations can be so bad so difficult so chronic so um deadly that all that you can do is believe God and this is the more reason why you shouldn't joke with walking in healing in the newness of life said all that you know walking in healing as a defense, as a response, a joint response in the wisdom of God. You know, you are wise to discern. Okay, let me let me believe God for this whilst I do rest. I do this. Sometimes you might say, okay, I think it's wise for me to go ahead as I'm still believing God because you'll see that faith is could be progressive as you're going to see. Okay, I might jump in the gun, but when we get we're going to see that and then sometimes maybe the only option. But now, let's get into it. If our conclusion is this that healing is available in the newness of life. Healing is available in the newness of life. It's already available. It's a gift. It's already given. It's not discretionary. We have made that argument and we're still going to talk about it. If healing is available in the newness of life, there's one question we need to answer and that is how is it affected? We know immortality will be affected at the Lord's discretion at his coming. That one is crystal clear in scripture. So how is healing affected? Is he affected at the Lord's discretion and when or how or just yeah as discretion anytime he wants whenever he wants wherever he wants is that healing is affected please we need to this where we need to pay attention. So if healing is available in redemption already available, we already have healing in this new life we have in Christ. How is he affected? Now there is no honest way to read the Bible, none whatsoever, that we would not realize that healing is affected by faith. The idea that it is effected at God's discretion you you know with that you don't have any role whatsoever you it can't be sustained alongside a very honest reading of the scriptures. There is no way to read the scriptures that is not very obvious to us that Jesus was a faith healer. This is standard um crit um historical view of the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is admitted across the board. It is undeniable. He did not even pretend about it. That is exactly what he was doing. He was clearly teaching healing by of healing by God's power by faith. All right. So this is so important. You could you you you couldn't have known him without knowing him with that. It was that how is healing affected? Healing is available in redemption. Healing is available in the gospel. Healing is available in the new life. How is he affected? We said by faith. What I'm going to do is start with an account we have seen in this um in one of our episodes earlier which is Paul in Acts 14 because with the Lord Jesus is all over the place and I'm going to go back there. We're going to look at a good number of text. So I'll start with Paul in Acts chapter 14 and in verse 7 all the way to verse 9 and they were preaching the gospel there. So Paul was somewhere preaching the gospel and in Lististra he said Paul went to Listra and Debbie and they were preaching the gospel there. So he now mentioned particularly in one of the places where they were preaching the gospel in Lististra a certain man without strength in his two feet was sitting a from his mother's womb who had never walked. So this is a very serious case. I mean it's been like that from his mother's womb. This man, this man, sorry, had Paul, sorry. This man heard Paul speaking. Paul observing him intently and seeing that he had faith to be healed, said with a loud voice, "Stand upright on your feet." Did you see that? This is not the case that Paul was told, "It's time for him to get healed." This is not the case of any other thing. And Paul observed and saw that from his preaching this man had faith. So faith was such visible that Paul perceived his faith. And he says, "Stand upright on your feet." And he lived and walked. Yeah. In this case, healing was available in the message Paul was preaching because it was available in the work of the message he was preaching. Is available in redemption. So Paul is preaching the gospel which is redemption. What Christ has done, it's available there. as he was preaching it Paul saw he had faith and he says stand up on your feet and walk you know that's it simple he was affected um he was affected by faith now there other text that will tell us about the Lord Jesus seeing that people had faith so we'll see that in Mark chapter 9:2 remember the man that was brought into his teaching meeting from the roof and he said he perceived their faith that's third party faith in this case this was um second party faith the person that needed healing So uh sorry am I saying it right? So you know we'll see it later. There's the faith of the minister. There's the faith of the person that needs the healing. But it could be third party faith like the friends of the person that brought him. It could be the entire congregation. But something is clear in God's word. There is no doubt that the way the faith available in the spirit in the newness of life in the gospel in redemption was affected was by faith. Now what we think that faith is might be a debate for some people and it's something we're also going to get into because healing the newness of life would be is walked in by faith. We need to examine that you know and be strong in the same. So in Mark chapter 9 and in verse two it says then behold they brought to him a paralytic lying on the bed and Jesus saw their faith. I'm going to read one more account and we'll wrap up this episode. Mark chapter 5, Jesus told the woman who had the issue of blood who was healed from that. He told her in verse 34, "Daughter, your faith," he didn't say God. Of course, we know it's God. Our faith in God, right? But he says, "Your faith has made you well. Go into peace and be healed of your affliction." We're going to wrap it up there for now. But faith is affected, sorry, healing is affected by faith. All right. God bless you. fulfill God's purpose and be healed. Amen. &gt;&gt; We trust you were blessed by today's episode. Do stay in faith about how you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your questions on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the Plurose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles at Pllearose_hog. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in his purpose.