Welcome to Play Rose Podcast.
You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim.
It is going to be an enlightening time in God's Word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to fulfill God's purpose.
We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's Word taught to be.
Let's get right into it.
Alright, welcome back to the Play Rose Podcast.
This is your daily dose of God's Word to transform you to fulfill God's purpose for your life.
Now, we're still looking at healing in the Nunez of Life and we have come a long way so we would be getting to the more practical side soon.
We are examining this subject matter because we can only fulfill God's purpose by greening all the realities God expects us to,
which are the realities of the Nunez of Life.
And we are trying to look at it from the external realities as it were into the internal one, even though they sort of overlap.
So we are looking at what is available in the Nunez of Life to our body, what is available in the Nunez of Life to the cosmos,
what is available in the Nunez of Life to our world, our conduct, etc.
So we're trying to look at it across the spectrum.
So, presently, because it's more immediately relatable for people and will be needed for all the explanation,
as well as it's a very necessary truth we must examine.
That's why we are looking at healing first.
It's so important and it was that important to the Lord Jesus.
As I was preaching and teaching the gospel, there was nothing we told the Lord did more than healed the sick.
And it's one of the most important things we can do to present the truth of healing
that people may hear it and also to minister the power of God that heals, that people may receive it.
So we could look at the number of texts in that regard that alongside a lot proclaiming the Kingdom of God,
which, if we recall, the Kingdom of God in its full effect is a state where there is not even mortality
and there is not even corruption.
So alongside him, proclaiming the Kingdom of God is him, healing the sick.
You can see that as Matthew chapter 4, and verse 23,
it was a consistent pattern of his ministry, Matthew 4, and verse 23.
The Lord said, the Lord went about all Galilee teaching in the Asynagogues, preaching the gospel of the Kingdom
and healing all kinds of sickness and all kinds of disease among the people.
So as I was preaching, teaching the Kingdom that this is what God intends.
This is how God wanted life to be.
This is what His purpose is.
This is what has gone.
This is redemption that has been wrote.
And this is what is now available to you because of redemption that is to be fulfilled,
because it was yet to fulfill that.
It was affecting that reality of healing to them in view of the consummation of redemption
where we would now have immortality and corruption.
So Matthew chapter 9, we reflect the same thing.
Now not just Galilee this time around, but everywhere else, Matthew 9 and verse 35.
Jesus went about all the cities and villages teaching in the Asynagogues,
preaching the gospel of the Kingdom and healing all, sorry.
Teaching preaching the gospel of the Kingdom and healing every sickness and every disease
and healing every sickness and every disease.
So there's no debate whatsoever that healing was an emphatic part of his ministry.
In fact, another text I like to show us in making this very point on point
that the preaching of the gospel, the preaching of redemption,
the preaching of gospel, the preaching of the new life we have
as healing as one of his most primary demonstration is in Acts chapter 14.
It's so baked into the teaching of the gospel that we're told Paul was preaching the gospel
and in his preaching the gospel, preaching redemption, preaching freedom from death
was the fate for someone to receive healing.
Look at it in Acts chapter 14 and verse 7, and they were preaching the gospel there.
And in Leastry, sat in man without strength in his feet was sitting
a cripple from his mother's womb who had never walked.
This man heard Paul speaking, Paul observing him intently and saying that he had faith to be healed.
Paul was speaking about the gospel, the fact that what Christ has done
has abolished death and has brought life and immortality to light and became obvious that
in that sense there is presently available the option, there is presently available,
the option of physical healing or there's presently available the reality of physical healing for
that man today. This shows us just how ingrained, you know, just how inseparable the preaching of
the gospel and the reality of healing is in redemption, okay? So we see that fact.
Now just to recall where I've been studying this, you know, if we say the newness of life
of coming to is about the very life God wants us to enter to in the age to come and that life is
going to be a state where there is no mortality in our body, no corruption matter because the Lord
we fed that at the end. The next question is what is available to our body and to matter today?
Now we start looking at the case of our body first and we saw that what Lord we
fact from a speak of immortality to our bodies is going to do by the spirit and that very same
spirit that very power of the age to come is available to us now and is affecting something in us
and so we ran through a number of texts where we saw that the spirit is the means by
with the Lord carried out healing as it did. The same spirit that is going to affect
immortality is the same spirit that today affects healing. So Romans 8 11 says is the spirit that is
going to affect immortality in our bodies at the end. Second Corinthians 5, 4 and 5 tells us
is the spirit that is going to cause mortality to be swallowed up of life and then we then see
that it is by this same spirit the Lord carried out is healing ministry. Very important. If the
means of this healing was not just the fact that it was him doing it but the very spirit that
risked him and that would resource at the end then we know that if that means the spirit is
available to us to do is available in the life that we have then healing is available in the
knownness of life. It's part of the reality available to us today. So we should consider healing
as part of the life we have in Christ to be walked in very important. There is a way and I hope
I hope you are not losing the train of thought here. There's a way we can think about healing as
effected in redemption and it should be wrong. The same way mortality is going to be affected
at the Lord's coming. It's not yet been affected. Healing was not affected in redemption.
It was made available by redemption. It's supposed to be walked in. You know,
mortality is going to be affected by the Lord Jesus as it's coming. The power of this spirit is
going to be walked in our bodies and we're going to be brought into a state of immortality and
incorruption. But the same way healing is not already affected in redemption. Now, there are
texts people go to to make such a case and those texts were seven and another perverse like first
bit at the top of the twenty-first twenty-four by stripes were healed and his intention there was
majorly about the condition we were in on that death that made us separated from God and I asked
you those of that way of redemption and now we are back to God. You know, we are reconciled back to
God. Now, when we did that healing of all spiritually, it does reconciled us to God. That healing
has in heat, physical healing. Like we're talking about now, right? You understand? Now,
in the newness of life there is healing. But that text itself is not talking about physical healing.
You're talking about fixing the condition that made us separated from God,
that made us apart from God. The other one is Matthew 8 and it's understandable because in that
very instance the Lord had just healed the sick and then the author intended to give like a form
of corroboration that is the one that is going to deal with this problem of death that is in the
world is going to be our sickness and disease. So that's the intention of the author there.
Taking a text that is talking about the work of someone who redeems, who deals with this problem
and then showing it as it's going to be the Lord Jesus who does this work because of the
ministry that we see in carrying out. So that was the intention in Matthew and in chapter 8.
I'm not going to focus on those texts and spend some more time on doing an exegesis on them,
but that's just the essence of what those texts are communicating. So while those two texts
Matthew 8, 16, 17 and 1st Peter 2, 24 are not texts intended to say that healing has already
been affected in redemption. They are simply text to say that Jesus is the one who is going to
effect healing this spiritual condition of death and by so doing bring life and in that life healing
like mortality would be available. Right. So healing is not an affected reality. It leads to some form
of dissonance when we say that like oh someone is healed but the person is like this it's the
kind of big sort of like a confusion. Now if we're talking about you having a new character in
Christ we know that as your nature but someone might be walking in the flesh and just like someone
could walk in the flesh despite having the new nature in the newness of life someone might still be
in a six states physically. Despite the fact that healing is available in the newness of life
the healing is not affected any more than the nature is affected in someone's work. The person has
to grow spiritually for that to be affected in ease or a walk seeing with the person has to
grow in faith about healing for the person to walk in it or minister it to others. So healing is
fully available in the newness of life. Healing is fully available by redemption. A new character,
a new nature is fully available in the newness of life and by redemption but we have to walk
in it. This is a very important distinction. Now we have seen several texts already about
healing's availability in the spirits that we have. You know it is by that spirit that Jesus
cast out demons and you would seek Magi Chapter 12 and verse 28, Acts chapter 10,
verse 28, Luke chapter 4, 14, alongside Luke chapter 5, 17. We also taught power,
flood out of him, Luke 6, 19, etc. So it is the same power of the spirit. The same spirit that
has mortality has healing. Healing is available in the spirit. Healing is available in the newness of
life today. Another text we can point to to speak of healing's availability in the spirit or in
the newness of life today is 1 Corinthians 12 and verse 9. The text on the gifts of the spirit.
Now in 1 Corinthians 12 and 9 it says to another faith by the spirit to another gifts of
aliens by the same spirit. So it speaks of healing has a reality that is in the spirit. In 1
Corinthians 12 and 28 it says God has appointed this in the church. First apostles are really
prophetic teachers. After that miracles then gifts of healings. And in verse 13 it says
do all I have gifts of healings. Now there are tons of debates on the gifts of the spirit and how
the priests and unfortunately it does not have focus in this particular episode or even on the
podcast for now. There might be a time we'll get to that and because it's an area where
by the data that we have from God's word the degree of satiety on almost every conclusion is
low. It's one of those subject matters where we present the most plausible case for what the
author intended to see. But that aside the conclusion we want to make here is healing is available
in the spirit that is in us. Healing is available in the spirit as in us. From the Lord Jesus we can see
that from the apostles we can see that all the way to the episode as well. We can see healing is
available in the spirit in us now. Usually people want to go to 1 Corinthians 12 alone and say healing
was said to be available as a gift of the spirit which is at the discretion of the spirit and so
it is not readily available. We have no choice about the matter. It's a priest just discretionary
leave. But that's not the attitude we find the Lord present to us at all in the fogus booth.
He gave the power of the spirit and his authority to people to heal the sick and he told them
freely I've received freely give you take the initiative. So healing consistently is presented as
not a discretionary matter but an available matter to be affected. It is an available reality
to be affected. Redemption has not affected healing. Redemption has made healing available.
Healing is now available in the newness of life and healing is to be affected in our bodies.
A new character in new nature is available in the newness of life and is to be affected in our
conduct. Healing is available in the newness of life and is to be affected in our bodies.
And we'll try to talk more on that. How do we walk in this healing path that is available to us
in the next episode. For now, God bless you for few gospoppos and PIEWED. Amen.
We trust you are blessed by today's episode. Do stay in faith about how you've heard to
walk in it. To learn more of God's work, visit plerose.hog. You will find answers to your
questions on the gospel, God, His purpose and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website,
don't forget to join the plerose community channel on water and follow us on all our social
media handles at plerose.hog.hog. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in His purpose.
