Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; Welcome back to the Pllearos podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. And we're looking at a very important subject matter, healing in the newness of life. We're winding now. We're getting towards the last phase of the teaching. And remember what we started from is seeing how do we fulfill God's purpose. It takes growth in our mind, in our hidden man, our inner man to fulfill God's purpose, right? And with that in mind, we then saw what we need to grow in. We need to grow in the newness of life or in the new creation new man. Something Paul said a lot in Ephesians 4 11-16 plus the rest of the place from 17 to 24 when we are growing in the unity of the faith. The focus is on the no man or the newness of life. So we took time out to study what the newness of life is about. It's the life God intended for us from the start. The life that will be fully affected at the end. And we need to understand how much of that life or how far what is in that life is available to us today. And we've set the boundaries of that. We said everything in that life except immortality in our body and incorruption of matter is available to us today. So the effect of that life on our spirit is available to us. The degree of that life relative to our body which is healing what we are studying is available to us. Then there's a degree of that life that is available relative to matter for our benefit. What we're going to study next that we should also be aware of and we should know how to walk in it. We're going to walk in God's purpose. We are going to learn to walk in the newness of life. And we said healing is available in the newness of life relative to our body. And one way to understand that is to see how immortality will be affected in our bodies at the end which is by the spirit. And then ask the question what is available in the spirit for our body today. And from the ministry of the Lord Jesus as well as the apostles, we can tell that healing is available in the spirit, in the newness of life, in redemption, in the gospel to our bodies today. So healing is available to you. Is available to you today. Is available to you by redemption is available in the newness of life you are in. It's available in the spirit that's in you. Healing is available to you today. Now with that said, we had to take a pause and examine natural healing because we are clearly talking about healing by the power of God which is supernatural healing. And we saw that natural healing must be fully and wholly embraced. There is nothing in God's word that wants us to have a disposition towards natural healing that is negative. It can be damaging to think that way. You can think wholesomely where you are accepting of natural healing as well as receptive of supernatural healing and then grow in your walk in supernatural healing not walking in fully presumption etc. Um natural healing should be embraced because God is the one who has made available the cosmos and has put it under the management of man for good. With that in mind, it brings us to why then do we need supernatural healing? And we mentioned three reasons. Supernatural healing should be a defense against sickness and disease. Exodus 15:26. Supernatural healing should be an active response. And you can say is a joint response when there is sickness and disease. So you should be a defense there such that there shouldn't ordinarily be sickness and disease in our bodies but it's also to serve as an active response in a joint response when there is a situation where there is sickness or disease. And lastly in some situations and this is why it's so critical. It might be the only option. It might be the only saving option available on the table. It's so important that we are aware of that. Now with that framework laid down the next question is all right fine. I mean I think you have done a good job of presenting a very if you think so good case for healing and not something that is out of you could say that is out of balance or that is unwome it has been presented as the word of god presents it now the question is so how then do I partake in this healing remember we said redemption made healing available but did not effect healing so for example redemption has affected our new nature we don't do anything toffect ffect the new nature we have but we have to walk in that nature and walk in that character. People's characters do not automatically change in their walk. There might be very few exceptions but it's not automatically what happens. People's character do not automatically change in their walk. It rather changes by their growth. It changes by their choosing to walk by faith for their character. It's the same way redemption has not affected healing has made it available in the spirit in the newness of life that we have. How do we effect healing? And we said overwhelmingly by reading God's word, we are left with zero doubt that healing is affected by faith. There might be some want to now debate even what that faith is and how that faith is. And that will be the last phase. So that's why I said we're getting to the last phase. We'll kind of kickstart a little bit on that today. But in the few more episodes, we're going to tie that and then we'll be done with this. But how is healing affected today? How is healing affected today? I want you to notice, we've seen already, we started looking at it from Paul, Acts 14 and verse 9. He was preaching the gospel and he saw someone that the person had faith to be healed and then he ministered to the person or he spoke a word and the person was healed. Then we saw an example of that with the Lord Jesus where he saw the faith of some people in Mark 9 and two. Then we took it a step backward. We saw the centurion. He said, "I have not seen such great faith in Israel." Matthew 8 and 10 and verse 13 says as you have believed so be it unto you. Then we came back to Matthew 9:22 again the woman who had the issue of blood he told her that your faith has made you whole. Matthew 9:29, according to your faith, talking to the I think blind Batmus or two blind people. He said, according to your faith, be it unto you. The sirenian woman, he said, woman, great is your faith as you have believed, as you have desired, he said to her, he told her to receive. So, consistently we see him addressing the recipient's faith or the third party faith. So, we saw third party faith in Matthew 9 and2, the recipient's faith in Matthew 8 9:15. But in Matthew 17 and in verse 20, the Lord addressed the minister's faith. So this was a this is a very interesting case. And so that's where we're going to start where it seemed like the recipient was admitting that let me be honest with you. I don't think I'm all there. I'm not even sure I like really believe but like you know I'm just here whatever is going to happen. So I'm going to read the account Mark 17 and from verse 14. And when they had come to the multitude, a man came to him, kneeling down to him and saying, Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is an epileptic and suffers severely. For he often falls into the fire and often into the water. So I brought him to your disciples, but they could not cure him. And then Jesus answered and said, "Oh faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him here to me." And I hope you know when he says, "Oh faithless and perverse generation," he was speaking to his disciples. He was telling them that you couldn't get it done. You are faithless and perverse. That's an indictment on the minister's faith. So we have to be careful when we like to turn it on just the recipient or top parties. We would see the need to take responsibility. And Jesus rebuked the demon and it came out of him and the child was cured from that hour. Nothing really has changed about the recipient or the third parties. The thing that changed there was the minister. And the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, "Why could we not cast it out?" And Jesus said, "Because of your unbelief." Wow. So again, he's addressing the minister's faith. For assuredly I say to you, you have faith as a mustard seed. You will say to this mountain, move from here to there and it will move and nothing will be impossible for you. However, this kind does not go out but by prayer and fasting. of which there's a very good argument that that kind is their faith and not the demon because they are all subject to the name of Jesus and if you say okay the difficulty of the particular demon case and your faith is weak you are still going to come back to the same conclusion that the issue is really their faith this account is such an important one that I want us to read Mark's accounts on it so Mark 9 so Jesus rebuked the minister's faith there we have seen several instance of the lord commending the recipient's faith and even the third party faith In Mark chapter 9, did you notice again that the me factory rebukes them is to show that these cases are not are not a matter of God's own discretion. It's presenting the case as already settled. And this is something we'll come back to when we are looking at the last phase which is actually walking in it. We have seen how affected faith and look at how to actually walk in it. We're going to come back again and again that healing is always presented as set. So Jesus gave them power and authority to cast out demon to heal the sick freely and receive freely gift. Right? So that's the attitude we are giving about healing, supernatural healing. Mark chapter 9, this time around I read from verse 15. So immediately when they saw him talking about the Lord, the people were greatly amazed and ran to him and greeted him. And he asked the scribes, "What are you discussing with them?" Then one of the crowd answered and said, "Teacher, I brought you my son who has a mute spirit. And wherever he wherever he sees him, he throws him down. He foams at the mouth, gashes his teeth, and becomes rigid. So I spoke to your disciples that they should cast it out but they could not. And he answered him and said, "Oh faithless generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him to me." He rebukes the disciples. And just to show you how it goes, he's going to rebuke the recipient as well. In this case, you can argue it's the third party because it's the father. And then they brought him to him. And when he saw him, immediately the spirit convulsed him and he fell to the ground and wallowed foaming at the mouth. He asked his father, saying, "How long has this been happening to him?" He said, "From childhood." And he often throws him both into the fire and into the water to destroy him. But if you can do anything, have compassion and help us. And Jesus said to him, "If you believe," now you see he's turning it to the person. He said, "If you believe, all things are possible to him who believes." And immediately the father of the child cried out and said, "Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief." So, it's kind of weird. It doesn't seem like faith is really doing anything much here. And the Lord saw the people running together. He rebuked the unclean spirit and said, "Death and dumb spirit, I command you. Come out of him and enter him no more." And the spirit cried out, convulsed him greatly and came out of him. And he became as one dead so that many said, "He's dead." But Jesus took him by hand and lifted him, and he arose. And when he had come to the house, his disciples asked him privately, why could we not cast him out? said this kind can come out by nothing but prayer and fasting. Don't forget about I've seen Matthew's account he was talking about their faith or that unbelief anyone you want to go with. Okay. So with this said we are seeing that there's the minister's faith there's the recipient's faith also there's a place for the third party people that are around faith like in Mark chapter 9 and to the friends of that man. Now we can move from the Lord Jesus and then look at the book of Acts. And there are really just two major accounts that would help us understand how healing is affected here. The first is Acts 3 and the second is Acts 14 which we have already seen. So I'm going to focus on Acts chapter 3. This is one instance yet again that seems to just be the minister's faith at play. So in Acts chapter 3, we look at this instance and he said, let's just read from verse one. Peter and John went up together to the temple at the hour of prayer at the night hour. And a certain man lame from his mother's womb was carried whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple that was called beautiful to ask arms from those who entered the temple who seen Peter and John about to go into the temple asked for arms and fixing his eyes on him with John Peter said look at us and he gave them his attention expecting to receive something from them but there's no big deal to that. is expecting to receive something natural. All right. And Peter says, "Silver and gold I do not have, but what I have, I give to you. In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, rise up and walk." And he took him by the right hand and lifted him up and immediately his feet and ankle bones receive strength. When they asked Peter what was going on, you could read it later in verse 16. And he said, "And his name." So he said, "This happened by the name of of the Lord through faith in his name." And the faith here could not have been the person at the beautiful gate. He didn't even care about the Lord Jesus. Probably I'm not sure he knew him even though the Lord must have been at that temple. So there's all kinds of argument around it. But through faith in his name has made this man strong. So he's talking about the minister's faith here. It says whom you see and know. Yes, the faith which comes through him talking about the faith that comes through what Christ has done. Redemption has given him perfect soundness in the presence of you all. When we understand that Jesus has defeated sin and death and life is now a right, there's a faith that comes through that that comes through Christ and the work he has done. And he says is by that that I gave the command. He has a right to be healed and he's healed. And this is something Peter knew about since since Matthew 10, Luke 9, Jesus had given them authority and power. They knew that being the redeemer in his name people can be set free from the effects of sin and death that are that can be addressed in this particular age and that includes sickness and disease. What I just want to point out is without a doubt and overwhelmingly so within the scriptures healing is available in the newness of life in the spirit by redemption but it is affected by faith and it could be affected by the recipient's faith like the woman who had the issue of blood that simply touched Jesus's garment without him knowing that she got healed. It could be affected by third party faith that brought people to Jesus. I'll show us some other examples of that probably in the next episode. But also it could be affected by the minister's fate. For most of the instances, it seems that there were a couple of it didn't matter who was what, but faith was at play. And that's how we must think about it as we proceed. How do we walk in faith for realing? We're going to look at that next. And we're going to explain something very important. Faith is not an order God set up. Faith is actually his design in this world. When you appreciate that, you stop thinking it's an ord that is mounted against your healing and you see it as just the receiving process that you need to engage. And we'll see that from the next episode. Thank you. God bless you. Fulfill God's purpose and be healed. Amen. &gt;&gt; We trust you are blessed by today's episode. Do stay in faith about all you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your questions on the gospel. God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the Plurose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles at Plurose_hog. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in his purpose.