Welcome to Plural's podcast. You are about to be blessed [music] by the teaching ministry of Pastor Aking. It is going to be an enlightening [music] time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to fulfill [music] God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word [music] taught to be. Let's get right into it. All right, welcome back to the Plural's podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life. And we're looking at the subject matter, preservation in the newness of life. Recall that we're studying on the newness of life as a whole because we realized that the only way we can fulfill God's purpose is by growing in the reality of who we are and what we have in Christ, which can be summatively called the newness of life. Who we are and what we have can be summatively called the newness of life. So, because we realized that, then it became necessary for us to start to see all the realities in newness of life and how we can grow in them, how we can effect them, how we can be stronger in them. Now, we looked at healing first because of the importance of healing in itself, but because we're also starting from outside in. When we're speaking of the things available to us in the newness of life, we're starting from the things external before coming to the things within us. So, we asked the question, what is this life all about? And we arrived at the conclusion that this life is that which God intended at the beginning that will be fully effected at the end. But, there are certain things in this life that are not available to be effected today. So, they're available in the life, they're possible in that life, but they're not to be effected today as a matter of God's plan because of his redemptive mission in this age. And we looked at all the texts on that. Second Timothy chapter 1 9 down was we looked at 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and all those texts that show us, yes, all of this is available, but this will not be effected until this point, because you have a mission to fulfill. You must put all things on nice feet. You must run until you put all things on his feet. Then, the last enemy that will be defeated will be dead. So, when we have fulfilled the mission, then it comes to effect the final phase of his plan in this age. Now, with that said in our study, we proceeded from that to look at If mortality is not available to our body and incorruption is not available to matter yet, what is available to our body? And we have answered healing is available. But then, what is available to the cosmos? But, more importantly, because it's not about the cosmos in itself, the question should be what is available to us relative to the cosmos? What is available to man? Let me put it more accurately. And this is so important, because you will see that when we speak on preservation in the newness of life, the focus is really about man. And sometimes, unfortunately, other things may be affected, which is still not God's best, but within what is available to us today, there is preservation in the newness of life that we can believe for. Okay, let me just mention something that I think I mentioned in the very first episode on preservation in newness of life. There are those who always feel the concern when you speak on natural benefits of redemption or the new creation or the newness of life that all attention is being taken away from the Lord Jesus to this. It'd be very strange, you know, that heart may not fully represent the heart of the Lord, and we have to be awesome. There are times when those statements are made and they reflect the concern of the Lord about people treating the things he gives as idols. And he said that about a generation seeking signs and wonders. He says, "They are an adulterous generation." Notwithstanding, people who talk like that may fall into the trap, if not careful, and if not in the measure that is is to be done in and not with the right heart. They fall into the trap of the Pharisees where they become so unmindful of the need to be compassionate about the situation people are going through and just concerned about this alignment with a position that they must make and how they must look. And we see an instance of that in Mark 3 and also another instance in Luke 13. Let's ensure that when we do speak on supernatural benefits as healing and be careful not to be quick to cast aspersions that it is an idolatrous concern because it is not. It is in the measure in which is spoken of in God's word. No doubt the focus of God's word is on God himself and his purpose, our fellowship within our walk with him, something that we have spoken of on already and would be the bulk of everything we ever speak about. No, but what is available to us must be spoken of in its own proportion for the sake of that very walk we are to have with God and in his purpose as well. Having said that, back to what we are looking at, what is available to us relative to the state of the cosmos today, preservation is available and that's the case we have been making. We saw that the same spirit that effects immortality in our bodies is the same spirit that effects healing, but it's also that same spirit that effects the deliverance of the cosmos of the creation from corruption as well. So, what can the power of that spirit do relative to us in this cosmos? Ordinarily, nothing will be done today about corruption in the world, but when the sick state of the world does arise, something could be done for the preservation of man and we can minister in faith about it. We saw the Lord do that in Matthew chapter 8, but we're not yet talking about I'm just trying to lay the ground for the different instance that show us that something can be done about the sick state of this world. We have looked at Matthew 8, we have looked at Matthew 14. Then we could look at Matthew 21, the fig tree. Now, this one doesn't seem to have a direct implication on preserving man, but it does show authority over the cosmos itself, which is the point I'm trying to draw out of it here. In Matthew chapter 21, you could look at verse 18. Now, in the morning, as he returned to the city, he was hungry. And seeing a fig tree by the road, he came to it and found nothing on it but leaves. And said to it, "Let no fruit grow on you ever again." Immediately, the fig tree withered away. So, there's arguments made that seeing the tree in the state it was, leaves being on it, there's the expectation, you know, you could have shed your leaves then when I expect any fruits to be on you, but now you have not shed your leaves. probably your in season, you are bringing out the leaves, so we should be expecting that fruit should be on you. And it's also it makes a lot of sense in just the context of why would the Lord go there. So, in not finding fruits on it raises the question of the the tree being an unfruitful tree, not serving its purpose, reflecting the sick state of the cosmos. Of course, there are different arguments like, "Oh, what if I healed the tree to bear fruits rather than cursed the tree to die?" And whichever one is, you know, the tree withering from its roots can lead to the arguments of is it going to be renewed and brought back? But let's leave all of that. There's There's also other theological questions that can arise there, but let's stick with the fact that it's a simple narrative. And what we see is that there's authority by faith with words over the cosmos, over matter, over creation. So, he spoke and said, "Let no fruit grow on you ever again." Immediately, the fig tree withered away. Of course, Matthew records immediately. When we read Mark's account, he said it happened by the next day they saw that it had begun to wither. So, the disciples saw it and they marveled saying, "How how the fig tree wither away so soon? &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; And the Lord answered, "I surely I say to you, if you have faith." So, we are coming to how is this done, but we'll leave with that for later. If you have faith and no doubt, you will not only do what's done to the to the fig tree, but also say to this mountain, "Be removed and be cast in the sea." And it will be done. What whatever you ask in prayer, believe it, you will receive. Let's look at Mark's account very quickly. So, this just an account telling us that there is authority over the cosmos or creation. In Mark's accounts, the events with the fig tree happened way earlier in verse 12 of chap- Mark 11. Now, the next day when they had come out of Bethany, he was hungry and seeing from afar fig tree having leaves, he went to see if perhaps he would find something on it. And he came to it and he found nothing but leaves, for it was not the season for figs. And in response, Jesus said to it, "Let no one eat fruit from you ever again." And his disciples heard it. By the time you get to verse 20, in the morning as they passed by, they saw the fig tree dried up from the root. Peter remembering said to him, "Rabbi, look, the fig tree which you cursed has withered away." And Jesus answered and said, "Have faith in God, for I surely I say to you, so I shall say to this mountain, so again, using an example from the cosmos, if you say to this mountain, 'Be removed and be cast into the sea,' and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that the things which he says shall come to pass, shall be done or shall come to pass, it will have whatsoever he says. All right, 24 again, therefore I say to you, whatever things you ask when you pray, believe you receive them and you will have them. There is no doubt that in the life of the Lord is exemplifying the authority over the cosmos, over creation, exercised by faith, exercised with words. Let's look at another example. This case is with Paul. So, Paul was in custody, was Should we say it was arrest let's just say he's in custody. Both of them would work, but he wasn't already sentenced yet. So, was arrested, he was to be tried, so and was being transported. In Acts 27, as we're about to begin the journey, Paul knows by the spirits that something is going to go wrong. So, in Acts 27 and in verse 10 he said, "Men, I perceive that this voyage will end with disaster and much loss. This is evil sickness or um disease in the cosmos. So, I perceive this voyage will end with disaster and much loss, not only of the cargo and ship, but also of our lives." So, he makes this distinction between it not only affecting our traveling, but also their lives. At this point he said, "I perceive." So, we might say manner in which Paul received the knowing of this information was not as accurate. But then, later on Paul is going to know yet again by the spirit, but this time around in a dream that they were going to be saved, that nothing was going to go wrong with their lives. And this is in verse 21. "After a long abstinence or fasting from food, then Paul stood in the midst of them and said, 'Men, you should have listened to me and not have sailed from Crete and incurred this disaster and loss. So, things were already going bad at this time. And now I urge you to take heart, for there will be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship. For there stood by me this night an angel of the Lord to whom I belong and who knew myself saying, 'Do not be afraid, Paul. You must be brought before Caesar and indeed God has granted you all those who sail with you. Therefore, take heart, men, for I believe God that to be just as it was told me. However, we must run aground on a certain island.' So, he's predicting everything else will be destroyed. They are going to They are going to survive. They are going to be on an island. And this is an instance of preservation even though the cosmos was getting sick. And they should have avoided it. So, you can see preservation can happen by the leading of the spirit. And preservation can yet happen even when the cosmos itself has already become sick. So, their life was preserved, but the destruction still happened. One more text I want to show us and that will be Matthew chapter 26. This is when the Lord was going to be crucified. He had prayed and renewed conviction that he has to go on to do the redemptive work for there is no other way. Of course, in his humanity it's not an experience one would want to go through. Now, in Matthew chapter 26 when the disciples were trying to attack or defend themselves, we are not sure which one. And they took the sword and struck someone. In Matthew 26:52, the Lord responded and said, "Put your sword in its place. For all who take the sword will perish by the sword. Or do you think that I cannot now pray to my father and he will provide me with more than 12 legions of angels? How would then could the scriptures be fulfilled that it must happen thus?" So, clearly we are seeing the Lord saying, "Yeah, they have come with their spears and their sword. They are coming against us to get us, but I can very well be preserved in this situation." And he says it can happen via the ministry of angels. This account surely brings to mind the instance of a particular king sending his soldiers against Elisha. And you know, Elisha's assistant panicking and he responds to him and tell him that those who are with us are more than those against us. Pray that his eyes was opened and then he sees that they have the ministry of angels around them. And it's on this premise that as we wrap up this section, I also take us to the temptation of the Lord and the words of the enemy when he was trying to get him to walk in the flesh to do things out of a wrong motive. So, he told him in Matthew chapter 5:4 and 5, he says, "If you are the son of God, why don't you before took him to the hill of the temple?" And verse 6, it says, "If you are the son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written, he shall give his angels charge over you." The problem is not the ability for this to be done would be walking in the flesh to get something done. And he says, "He will give his angels charge over you, and in their hands they shall bear you up, lest you dash your feet against a stone." And he said, "This is written, you shall not tempt the Lord your God." But we can see the sentiment of the ministry of angels bringing about preservation, safety, deliverance, security in that text, Matthew 4, as much as in Matthew 26. And we'll start to look at some the Old Testament text on this matter as well. But there is no doubt running into the New Testament text that there is such a thing as preservation available by God's power. And we can rightly say available in the known as of life. We'll wrap it up there for now. Thank you. See you on the next one, fulfill God's purpose. We trust you are blessed by [music] today's episode. Do stay in faith about all you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; visit pleroma.org. You will find answers to your questions [music] on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; don't forget to join the pleroma community channel on WhatsApp, and follow us on all our social media handles at pleroma_org. [music] For now, stay blessed and keep walking in his purpose.