Welcome to Plar Rose podcast. You are about to be blessed by the teaching ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to be an enlightening time in God's word, renewing your mind and transforming your life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray for you that you are established in all the truths of God's word taught today. Let's get right into it. &gt;&gt; All right, welcome back to the Polaros podcast. This is your daily dose of God's word transforming you to fulfill God's purpose for your life and we are studying already the newness of life and we have made quite some progress in this examination. We are seeing that this subject matter the newness of life you could also say the new creation is about the most important subject matter for us to examine in God's word. I know like preachers have this tendency to say anything they're talking about at the moment is the most important. I guess I would have been guilty of it because I'm very sure I would have said maybe knowing your purpose is the most important. And I think you get the point when I say knowing your purpose on earth is the most important thing. And then I go on to say the new creation is the most important. I'm still within the same line. Right? Of course I go on to say redemption is the most important. That is you need to be saved. Then you need to know your purpose. Then you now need to know the new creation so that you can fulfill God's purpose for you. um just excuse some of these things is there's some preachers license to do those things. Okay. So, but no doubt the teaching on the new creation or the newness of life is so so important for the believer's growth, work and fulfillment of God's purpose. Now presently on our study of the new creation we um sorry of the newness of life we have gone the journey of seeing that knowing God's purpose is not enough is important that we fulfill it and fulfilling it requires growth and we have seen that growth happens on the mind we have seen the particular aspect of our mind that growth happens to but having seen all those details we then have to see how exactly that growth or with what exactly I should say at this point with what exactly Because we know how the growth happens to us is by knowledge and faith stand. But okay, what's that knowledge? Should we now go all into all in all hand on certain you know um subject matters like maybe should we now get know get to knowing theology proper biblical origin and ontology? Should we get to studying you know um sutterology before Christ came upon his coming etc. you know what are we supposed to be studying and we said as important as all those subject matters are as important as every detail within the um biblical scriptural Christian doctrine is there is one particular truth that is at the center and the heart of the Christian faith and that is the reality of the new creation and the text that made this very clear to us is Paul's words in Ephesians 4 in talking about the work that the Lord Jesus gave to the leaders of the church. He says they are to perfect the saints so that the saints will come to the unity of the faith, knowledge of son of God, perfect man, measure of stfulness of Christ. So he's saying that there is this wholeness of doctrine, unity of the faith which he also calls the knowledge of son of God. What as a son of God you ought to know or what is to be known about the person of Jesus. There are many ways to skin that to skin it. You know that particular statement knowledge of son of God. It can be what we ought to know as sons of God. It can be what we ought to know about Christ which is saying what we ought to know about the Christ the redeemer you know I don't want to go into more explanation on that because redemption is like the central truth of the faith if you understand sorry you have said the new creation is central the new creation is should be our our major focus but redemption captures the fact that there is something God proposed initially there's something that has gone wrong we are being brought back and there's a future consumation of that so redemption is like at the very heart the middle of our study but no doubt what makes for the most focus in the study of the word for our growth is the new creation. So when it says knowledge of son of god if we believe he's saying the knowledge of the Christ which is a maybe probably even the most um probable meaning of that even though it could also be knowledge of son of god what you should know as the son of god but it is the knowledge of the Christ and he's saying the knowledge of redemption which is the entirety of the doctrine not notwithstanding right okay so he wants us to come to the entirety of the doctrine and by that we should come to the perfect man the measure of statess of Christ but interestingly by the time he goes He finish is done talking about what the leaders of the church should do are called to do and instructed to do by the Lord. Immediately he says the effect of it should be seen on our walk and it should be such that we are not walking as those who are yet to believe the gospel. Then he tells us why we should walk that way is because of the state of our mind. And the reason why they are walking that way is because something is lacking on on their mind. And then he says what is on our mind or what should be on our mind is the truth of the new creation. So it shows us that within the awesome doctrine there is a conclusion that should be our focus and that is who we are in Christ. The entirety of the doctrine should lead to that conclusion and that's who we are in Christ. Amen. Okay. So it says you have not so long Christ. So you are not in a state where your mind is futile and therefore you are walking in the flesh. You have not so learned Christ. If indeed you have heard him have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus that you put off concerning your former conversation the whole man that grows corrupt according to this fullest that you are renewed in the spirit of your mind. That you put on the new man that is created after God in righteousness and holiness of truth. Those three things are pointing to one thing. We need to have our focus on the new creation. That's what makes for our walk. Immediately he says that then he begins to talk about all areas of our work. He's saying we should not lie to one another. every man should speak truth to his neighbor. We shouldn't be angry um in a sinful manner. Then um he says we should work with our hands. You know, he keep just goes on and on. Talks about our relationship, talks about our love work, talks about the supernatural, talks about our natural assignment, our conducts and our families, our conduct at the workplace, our spiritual assignment as well on and on like that. Now with all that is said that our entire life comes from the the teaching of the doctrine and particularly the truth of the new creation we are studying the newness of life and now we'll go back to Romans chapter 6 so we can we have clearer understanding of of this subject matter and remember in the last session I was saying the reason why we are looking at the newness of life rather than say the new creation is because when we say the newness of life we are able to look at the external and the internal conditions that pertain to the new life that we have in Christ. So if I say the new creation, we might only think of the person and so might just focus on the internal conditions. But when we say the newness of life, we able to look at who we are in in in those two ways and you'll see why it's important actually very soon. So in Romans 6, Paul was saying we shouldn't continue to walk in sin now that we have received the grace of God because grace of God doesn't just deal with the effect of sinful conduct. It also deals with the very nature of sin you can say or with the very authority of sin. So and he mentions that in verse four therefore we were buried with Christ through baptism into death. So we went under death's reign and allowed it to take its full effect. We went into death. We went under death reign taking his full effect in what Christ has done. And in the legitimate exhaustion of death's demands is the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. All right. Uh there's a teach I encourage you to listen to. I hope it's out by the time you are hearing this which is on level three. So you have to take so you have to take perfecting course to get there. All right. So because level three of perfecting course which is redemption where we look at the various stories of redemption and what should be the way we understand redemption in actuality. I think title is the reality of redemption. So it's on level three. You should listen to it. Now if it's not out you can wait for it. It's going to be out eventually. Very important. Now in Romans 6 and:4 it says we're buried with Christ through baptism into death that as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the father which of course as many people have thought and it makes sense to say by the spirit of God you know you can say it's by his power but it's not wrong to think of it as by the spirit of God in fact is right. Even so we should walk in the newness of life. We went in the death and burial of Jesus into one realm. But in the resurrection, we were brought into another realm. So that Romans 6:4 is not just talking about what happened to our person. It's actually talking about two realms. And that's because we were under the reign of sin before as Romans 5 said, you know, it said death reigned from Adam to Moses over those who had not seen according to the likeness of Adam's transgression. So we are saying death rain is in this world. I mean and death reign still affects every human being at least in terms of mortality but we have the seal of God exempting us from the um overall effect of death in second death because we have received the spirit of God. And Romans 5 as well in verse 17 says we have come into this new realm which is the realm of life. It says for by one mouth of death reign to the one much more models receivable abundance of grace and the gift of righteousness will reign in life. You know we are seeing walk in the newness of life. We are seeing rain in life. So under the reign of death we were victims we were subjects we were slaves we were being affected negatively by it. Now in the reign of life we we are we have the initiative we are reigning. We are in power. Okay. So we reign in life. So this idea of the newness of life is beyond just saying that there is life in us which is true is saying that we are in life. We are in the reign of life. Very important. Now there are two words we need to examine here when we speak of the newness of life. It's one thing for us to walk in the newness of life and we know what it takes to walk from our earlier studies. So we have to grow to be able to walk and that's by faith. Right? Colossians 2:6 as we lord just walk in him. So the same we receive the Lord by faith. We're supposed to walk in it. But what is the newness of life? The word newness is being used for the purpose of contrast. So there's something old and now we are in new. So what is old is stated by Paul in the next two verses. He said if we were united in the likeness of his death, certainly we shall be in the likeness of his resurrection. knowing that our old man was crucified with him. So in this contrast of old and new, there is who we were, not just the condition we were in, which is the reign of death. So he says, "Knowing this that our old man was crucified with him that the body of sin might be done away with, that we should no longer be slaves of sin." So the nature is changed and we are no longer under the rain. We are no longer slaves of sin. The contrast between old and new is also referenced in Romans 7:6. But it was showing the unique nature of the bondage that pertained to those who were under the law. You know, all of humanity was under the bondage of sin. Some with the law and some without the law. Right? This something Romans 2:12 to about 16, I think established or establishes. So Romans 7:6 says, "But now we have been delivered from the law, having died to what we were held by." You see that? So again is showing that we cannot be under the demands of that play of that place and of that ring. We have died to that so that we should serve in the newness of the spirit and not in the oldness of the letter. So we are not a people without the nature who are now being in demanded and instructed to walk in a particular way. We have died to such a state and now we are a people with the nature with the spirit. We are his people that can now walk in the spirit. There's much to be said there because when we're talking about the Lord there's there are fine details to unpack. There were people whose reception of the law was not as the kind of demand Paul will speak about in Romans 7 because they were faith. Then their relationship with the law is like what we saw in Joshua 1:8 where it was a matter of them walking in what is true about them as the people of God. And yet the same law was functioning differently for some other people. This this is something else that's something to look at some other time. So noess here we are saying is in contrast with a hold condition or nature or reality. Okay. So we are at work in the newness of life. We are brand new and we are in new conditions. The big word here to look at is the word life. We understand there's the oldness of death that includes the conditions of death the nature old man and for some people the oldness of the letter the system of the lord that they were functioning under I haven't seen that word newness what we need to focus on is the word life and the is that though the word life is zoh and this is not to make undue offense but zoh does not mean the life of god and I'm going to explain that in during next episode. So, Zoe is a very generic word for life. In fact, Zoe is where we get the word zoo or zoologology because it's referring to a particular kind of life. And in the next episode, we are going to unpack it. You know, you can talk about life as you know life is living things and of course we have plants and animals as living things. When you're saying zoo zoo different from botney where you're talking about plants we talking about some kind a particular kind of life usually animates right um with the possibility of certain kinds of animation we are going to look at that because that word extends beyond just the internal conditions of an animate life or external conditions as well for now we keep looking at iness of life see you on the next one fulfill God's purpose thank We trust you were blessed by today's episode. Do stay in faith about all you've heard to walk in it. To learn more of God's word, visit pleose.org. You will find answers to your questions on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how to fulfill it. Whilst on our website, don't forget to join the Pllearose community channel on WhatsApp and follow us on all our social media handles at Plurose_Hog. For now, stay blessed and keep walking in his purpose.
